# The Sorted Array

In this assignment we had a choice about which data structure to implement.  The choices were:  The Sorted Array, The Unsorted-Optimized Array or the Generic Unsorted-Optimized Array.  We were supposed to implement all four of the main operations (Insert, Delete, Fetch and Update).  It does use the Java "ArrayList" structure instead of an Array.  All sorting is done with a "Binary Search" algorithm.  It's not necessary to implement a full sorting algorithm since the program deals with nodes one at a time.  The program also includes a menu for choosing which operation to perform.

We were also assigned to implement "Garbage Collection".  This is a process to clean up nodes that have been removed during Delete operations.  The program differs from the brief in that I chose to use a Pointer Table to access the ArrayList of Student nodes.  I also implemented a Stack structure as part of the garbage collection process.  Here's how it works:  The nodes in the main array are never rearranged, it is the pointer table that is rearranged. This is easier and faster than rearanging the nodes.  On Delete the address in the main array is pushed onto a stack and the pointer is removed from the pointer table.  The pointers also are "moved up" during this process.  During insert the stack is first checked.  If there is an address there it is used for the new node and the pointer to that new node is sorted into the pointer table.  If no address is in the stack then the new node is added to the end of the main table and then the address is sorted into the pointer table. Ouputting the list invloves going through the pointer table sequentially and printing the nodes in sorted order.

