# Binary Trees

This assignment works with Binary Trees.  There are two parts to it.  The first one implements the binary tree as a set of Treenodes, similar to a linked list, each node has links to two nodes instead of one.  It also has a TreeNodeWrapper class to help enforce encapsulation.  For a balanced tree, the insert and fetch methods are very fast compared with other structures.  Delete can be tricky because one needs to track the links with the parent as well as the child nodes.  Algorithms exist for balancing an unbalanced tree, these can be tricky to implement and are not implemented here.  A completely unbalanced tree is not different from a Linked List.  Besides the speed associated with a Balanced tree it is also easy to read the tree off in sorted order.  This is often done with a recursive function that works its way through the nodes of a binary tree.  Binary trees can be used to convert algebraic expressions to either postfix or prefix notation.  The algebraic expression is turned into a tree by putting operations at nodes and operands at the lowest levels on each branch.  One can then read off the prefix or postfix expressions using standard tarversal techniques.

The second program implements a Binary Tree within an Array.  Each node has an algorithm for calculating the child node addresses instead of links.  In that program I included a StudentNode Class which is a wrapper class for the Student nodes.  It does not use the ArrayList class so is not easly expandable.
