# Hashing

Hashing is a method for accessing data structures that is typically faster than other types of methodology.  The idea is that the key itself is used in some way to calculate the address of the node in the structure.  It is generally not a sorted list and producing a sorted list requires sorting on the spot.

The assignment uses two basic hashing methods.  The first is the "Perfect Hash" where there are exactly the number of nodes needed.  The addresses of the nodes are fixed and an simple calculation tells the computer the address explicitly from the key.  The program portrays a seating chart at a theatre, the combination of row and seat number tells the computer where to find the relevant node.  This works best if prime numbers are used.  This may mean making the table slightly larger than needed.  The advantages of prime numbers for this cannot be overlooked.  I did not use primes however.  The assignment was specifically to use a table that was exactly the right size.  The advantage of primes comes from the mathematical result that there are "Finite Fields" with orders that are any integer power of a prime number.  That means that one can then use finite field arithmetic to calculate the address.  Similar mathematical objects to finite fields which are not of prime power order are often not closed under division  (there is no finite field of order 6, although both 5 and 7 do have finite fields).

The second part of the assignment uses a Java "HashMap" Class. The big advantage of the HashMap is that Insert and Fetch methods tend to be pretty fast.  The big disadvantage is that a typical hashed data structure can be many times larger than the number of nodes.  This is done to reduce the number of "collisions".  Collisions occur when two different keys lead to the same address.  This can happen because of the way the computer calculates the address from the key.  When a collision occurs the program will then tell the computer where to look next for another possible address for the node.  Collisions do slow down the process of finding the node.  If there is more empty space in the main data structure then it is more likely to not have many collisions.  The HashMap Class deals with collisions transparently from the viewpoint of the programmer.  The HashMap program uses "Student" nodes.  
